[MUSIC]
>> Mike: So we have a component here.
I'm actually going to publish
it to npm just for kicks.
Cuz this is awesome,
we have to share this with the world.
[LAUGH] And
I'm gonna rename it so that joke.
[LAUGH]
So that I don't
step on someone's useful namespace that-
>> Speaker 2: Couldn't you just do like
a symlink to do that?
To share in class,
maybe just like a symlink?
>> Mike: So I could do that, but
that's not the way you guys
are typically gonna consume addons.
I can do an npm link and explicitly run
an installation blueprint or whatever.
But that's not really what's gonna happen.
So I'm gonna take advantage of this
because I'm actually gonna publish it,
and we're gonna do
an installation blueprint here.
So the concept of
an installation blueprint is
post-install setup functionality.
So when you run Ember install, npm install
is basically the first thing that happens.
And then the consuming app looks into
the addon and runs a particular blueprint.
And the blueprint it will run
is a blueprint whose name
matches the addon's name.
So we can generate
a blueprint that does this.
>> Mike: So we have a blueprint now.
We can go and see it right here.
>> Speaker 2: Now you made that up,
does it need to match
the name in the package JSON?
>> Mike: It needs to match the name,
good question,
it needs to match the name
in this index.js file.
So and this is, if you are really
interested in developing addons, there is
nothing I can cram into an hour that would
get you to the point you need to get to.
But here's the short answer,
this is Ember's understanding
of the name of this thing.
Package.json, this is the the npm package,
where this can be found.
>> Mike: So in this blueprint,
I'm gonna fill in this after install hook,
and I'm going to do,
>> Mike: We'll add underscore,
>> Mike: And,
>> Mike: So that's not gonna help us here.
>> Mike: All right, so we'll pick
a random version here, 1.7, perfect.
>> Mike: And we can actually run this,
so I'm gonna make a commit just so
we have a clean situation.
>> Mike: We can run the blueprint
itself within this addon
just to see kind of what it does,
ember g fem.
And then we have to sort of pass
a name in just because by default,
blueprints need a name, because usually,
you're generating an object, right?
In this case, it's sort of ignored.
Looks like I forgot a comma or something.
I'm getting overzealous with ES6 and
Node.js code.
>> Mike: Undefined is not a function.
>> Mike: Sorry.
>> Mike: All right, so
what just happened was,
here's my stupid little build fix.
>> Mike: Underscore should have been
added to package.json, let's see.
>> Mike: All right, well, let's push
it anyway and see if this works.
>> Mike: Perfect.
[LAUGH] Awesome.
This is gonna be a really popular addon.
>> Mike: All right, so
this is our GitHub app.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
[LAUGH]
>> Mike: All right, so, hm,
our post in cell didn't
seem to work there.
addBower, I know what the problem is.
>> Mike: Shoot.
>> Mike: All right, my mistake here.
So addBower to packaged project returns
a promise, after install is promise-aware,
and so effectively what happens now
when we run this, if I republish it.
>> Mike: When we install this addon,
it will then, as a post install step,
install this bower package
into the consuming app.
>> Mike: It's possible that it's cuz
it's already installed, let's see.
>> Mike: Hm, one more thing to check here.
>> Mike: So that's in my package JSON,
except it's not.
>> Mike: I'm making this seem
way more difficult than it is.
>> Mike: We'll do this.
>> Mike: All right.
>> Speaker 2: You've got
your first consumer.
>> Mike: Finally, okay, so there it is.
Underscore was added and the best thing
to do to learn what these blueprints
are capable of is to go and look at
some of the more popular Ember addons.
Look in the blueprints folder.
Remember that the name of the blueprint
that matches the name of the addon,
that is what will be run
automatically on Ember install.
You can install other addons,
and their blueprints will be run.
You can add npm packages,
add bower packages, and additionally,
you can have in your blueprint if you
have a folder called, I believe, files.
>> Mike: Anything inside this,
>> Mike: Will
be added to the structure of your,
it'll be a file that's added
to the consuming project.
And if it's a file that already exists,
that's where we were getting
sort of that git diff with the option
to replace or see the diff or reject.
And so if you need to make
a configuration change, for example, or
if you need to add an initializer or
change the way the application starts up,
or set a default somewhere in
some files that already exist,
the default blueprint is where to do that.
>> Speaker 2: It's the same as
if you made a blueprint, and
your blueprints overlap
your application so.
>> Mike: Precisely, and
just that the special one is the one
with the same name as your app.
>> Mike: So this is a really like surface
level Ember addon demo here.
Definitely check out emberaddons.com and
emberobserver.com.
There is some good scoring methodology
that has to do with how popular it is
on GitHub, how many downloads per month it
has, whether there's good test coverage,
how many contributors there are.
So there's a real effort
to surface to Ember
developers which ones
are really solid versus
which ones were created
hastily during a demo and
[LAUGH] possibly have some weird behavior.